# Company-Bankruptcy-Prediction
Predicting company bankruptcy is critical when it comes to investment banking or credit lending or understanding the overall health of any company. Various factors contribute to the overall health of a company such as revenue, debt, product offerings, external factors such as natural calamities or recession etc. In this regard, a successful bankruptcy classification algorithm has been developed using Taiwan Economic Journal data set.

The data set is a collection of all the companies from Taiwan Economic Journal during the years 1999 to 2009. The data set consists of 6819 entries against 96 various financial ratios as features along with the information whether each company filed for bankruptcy or not. The data set does not contain any null values or duplicate values. During the data wrangling process performed on the data set, it is found that the data set contains 3 categorical variables inclusive of the dependent variable.

From EDA, it is found that most features in the data set are leptokurtic, contain outliers and are non categorical. Feature manipulation has been done wherever necessary by using aggregate values of multicollinear features thereby reducing multicollinearity. Further, the whole data set was found to be imbalanced with only 220 instances of bankrupt companies. SMOTE has been used to balance the data. Training data is split 0.7 times the overall size of the data set while MinMaxScaler has been used to scale the data.

Logistic regression was initially fitted using the training data set with 5 fold cross validation yielding ROC AUC score of 0.9 on the test data set. A model of Bernoulli-Naive Bayes classifier was also trained and predictions were made. However, it performed poorly in comparison to the Logistic Regression model. Further, Support Vector Machine classifier was fitted with Radial Basis Function as kernel after 5 fold cross validation resulting in ROC AUC score of 0.9847 on testing data set. Also, an XGBoost model was trained and predictions were made on testing data with an ROC AUC score of 0.9884. However, considering the business perspective which demands least room for error(false negative) SVM classifier was ultimately chosen as the best model due to recall score of 0.9994 as compared to 0.9964 of XGBoost model.

Feature importance using shap values was analyzed and it can be summarized that Lower value of Research and Development Expense Rate, Lower Total Assets growth rate, Lower Cash Turnover rate, Low returns on assets and Lower inventory turnover rate were the top 5 reasons driving a company to the edge of bankruptcy.
